In this lecture we are going to add a custom image size in my browser.
I have a copy of the team members block.
For each team member we have a profile image.
The dimensions of this image are 56.
By 56, WordPress will create copies of our images.
These copies have different sizes.
By default, WordPress creates four copies.
The sizes are called original, large, medium and thumbnail.
As you can imagine, WordPress creates copies of our images in different sizes for optimization.
If we don't need to load the full sized image, we can load a smaller version of the image.
Unfortunately, none of these sizes are suitable for our block.
While not required, there are a lot of benefits to creating a custom image size.
The smaller the image, the smaller the file size.
Thus our pages will load faster.
I think it would be a good idea to create a custom image size for our block.
Adding a new image size is easy in your editor.
Open the indexed PHP file.
New image sizes must be registered during a specific hook called After Setup Theme.
Let's call the add action function with this hook.
This hook runs after the theme files have been loaded.
As a reminder, plugins run earlier than themes.
We must wait for the theme to be ready before registering a new size.
Otherwise, we may run into issues.
Next, let's set the name of the function to up setup theme.
This function doesn't exist.
Let's work on defining it inside the included directory.
Create a file called setup PHP.
Inside this file.
Define the up setup theme function.
Afterward run a function called add image size.
The ad image size function will register a new image size for new images.
WordPress will create an additional copy of the image with the dimensions specified in this function.
This function has four arguments which are name, width, height and crop values.
The name of our custom size can be anything.
Let's set the name to team member.
Next, set the width and height to 56.
The fourth argument can be used for configuring the crop settings.
Images may not be able to maintain their ratios during the resizing process.
In these cases, WordPress will crop the image.
We can crop the image from the center corner or edges and the resource section of this lecture I provide
a link to an article on the cropping process.
This page provides an overview of the various cropping values that can be passed into the fourth argument
of the ad image size function.
WordPress is very flexible.
We can crop the image from various locations for our purposes cropping.
The image from the center will be the best option.
Let's head back to the editor.
We can crop an image from the center by passing in.
True.
Feel free to explore the other options.
In most cases, cropping from the centre is the best way to go.
After registering the image size, we can begin installing a plugin in the admin dashboard.
Navigate to the add new page for plugins.
The new image science will be applied to fresh uploads.
But what if this plugin was installed on an existing site?
It's possible that a site may have hundreds of existing images.
These images will not be available in our custom size.
For this case, it's common for developers to recommend a plugin called Regenerate Thumbnails.
Let's install and activate this plugin.
This plugin will force WordPress to create new image sizes, including custom sizes for all images.
It's a great plugin for assuming that an image will be available in our custom size on the sidebar under
the tools menu.
Click the regenerate thumbnails link.
This page will provide us with the option of regenerating thumbnails.
Let's regenerate our thumbnails.
This process may take a while.
Be patient.
After a few moments, the plugin should finish regenerating thumbnails for your entire site.
Let's try testing our image size by editing the experimental page.
On this page and the team members group block.
Lastly, try adding an image.
Make sure your developer tools are open.
Inside the console, the images info gets logged.
You can look through the object to find various pieces of information on the image search for a property
called Sizes.
This property will be an object of sizes available for an image.
WordPress will include its own sizes.
However, our custom size is not available.
In the next lecture, let's talk about why our custom size is not appearing in their response.